Distributed systems, distributed programming,
and distributed algorithms originally referred to computer networks,
where individual computers are physically distributed within
some geographical area and communicate with each other via message passing.
An early example from the 70s,
is ARPANET's Email Application.
In a network topology,
which is basically a graph,
each node has its own private memory and
processor and it communicates with the other nodes via messages.
Some of you might have experienced with parallel computing using tools,
such as OpenMP or OpenCL.
You can think of parallel computing as
a particular tightly coupled form of distributed computing.
The main difference is,
that in parallel computing all processors may
have access to a shared memory to exchange information.